Full List of Questions after Task 2

1. Data description
 a. How does your project generate new data?
 b. Is existing data reused? 
 c. Which data types (in terms of data formats like image data, text data or measurement data) arise in your project and in what way are they further processed?
 d. What is the anticipated data volume and how many datasets do you estimate will you generate?
 e. Which data is reproducible, and how much effort is associated with the reproduction of this data?

2. Documentation and data quality
 a. What approaches are being taken to describe the data in a comprehensible manner (such as the use of available metadata, documentation standards or ontologies)? 
 b. What measures are being adopted to ensure high data quality? 
 c. Are quality controls in place and if so, how do they operate?
 d. Which digital methods and tools (e.g. software) are required to use the data?
 e. Does your project use data that is only readable using special software? If so, document how the software is used.
 
3. Storage and technical archiving the project
 a. How is the data to be stored and archived throughout the project duration?
 b. What is in place to secure sensitive data throughout the project duration (access and usage rights)?

4. Legal obligations and conditions
 a. What are the legal specifics associated with the handling of research data in your project?
 b. Do you anticipate any implications or restrictions regarding subsequent publication or accessibility?
 c. What is in place to consider aspects of use and copyright law as well as ownership issues?
 d. If applicable, what license will you use for your data?
 e. Are there any significant research codes or professional standards to be taken into account?

5. Data exchange and long-term data accessibility
 a. Which data sets are especially suitable for use in other contexts?
 b. Which criteria are used to select research data to make it available for subsequent use by others?
 c. Are you planning to archive your data in a suitable infrastructure? If so, how and where?
 d. Are there any retention periods? If so, why?
 e. When and under which conditions is the research data available for use by third parties?

6. Responsibilities and resources
 a. Who is responsible for adequate handling of the research data (description of roles and responsibilities within the project)?
 b. Which resources (costs; time or other) are required to implement adequate handling of research data within the project?
 c. How will these resources be raised?
 d. Who is responsible for curating the data once the project has ended?

7. Sub-Project Section
 a. What is the official name of your research project?
 b. Who are the principle investigators?
 c. In which of the following categories does your project fit? [Algen und Protisten, Bakteriologie und Virologie, Botanik, Ökologie und Umwelt, Geowissenschaften, Mikrobiologie, Mykologie, Paläontologie, Zoologie, Andere]
 d. Which of the following types fits your project? [Feldarbeit, Beobachtend Experimentell, Labor, Simulation, Assimilation, Modellierung, Andere] 
 e. Who is the person to contact when it comes to questions about your research data during the projects run time? [e-mail and (optionally) phone number]
 f. Do you hand in physical objects along with your data?
  fa. Are your objects alive or dead?
  fb. Does your object taxon based on a taxon?
 g. Are you primarily generating sequence data?
 h. Do you need a persistent identifier (i.e. ePIC PID / DOI) for your data?



Changes in task 2:
 - added all questions in section 7 from GFBio
 - added 4d. from GFBio
 - edited 1d., added question about number of datasets from GFBio
 - edited 5d., added question about reason for retention period from GFBio